Let's talk a bit about the advantages as far as disadvantages of decision trees.
So first of all decision trees are quite easy to understand and interpret.
Dan it is one of the best approach is to identify more significant varietals and features and the relationships
between the variables.
This is what we have been discussing that with that map of entropy we are able to end up with the information
gain associated with every single feature in the dataset and the information gain with the highest value
is the most relevant feature.
OK so this is one of the best approaches to identify most significant variables and features.
Dan there is no need for data prep processing.
So for example decision trees are not influenced by outliers so no need to minimax normalization or
Z transformation as we have seen for nearest neighbor classifier Because decision trees are not influenced
by outliers.
OK.
One of the most important advantages of decision trees is the fact that they can handle numerical variables
and features as well as categorical variables categorical variables such as yes or no or sunny or rainy.
So basically this is what we have been discussing in a previous lecture is that we don't have to transform
these values into numerical values because decision trees can handle categorical values as well.
OK so this is a very very important feature of decision trees.
What about the disadvantages.
Decision trees have the tendency to overfit.
There are lots of lots of solutions.
How we can deal with this problem.
For example we can Solway it with the help of pruning or for example with random forest classifiers.
So there are more advanced techniques than decision trees.
The second problem is that decision trees can be unstable because small variations in the dataset might
result in a completely different tree being generated and generating the optimal tree like structure
is complete.
So how Pristiq solutions are needed such as the greedy approach the IATSE algorithm for example relies
heavily on these greedy approach.
OK so in the next lecture we are going to talk about the concrete implementation of decision trees.
Thanks for watching.